# Defining modules to Control Scope and Privacy

* Modules let us organize code within a crate for readability and easy reuse.
* Modules also allow us to control the privacy of items, because code within a module is private by default.

## Modules Cheat Sheet

Quick reference on how modules, paths, the `use` keyword, and the `pub` keyword work in the compiler.

* __Start from the crate root:__ When compiling a `crate`, the compiler first looks in the `crate root file`
(usually `src/lib.rs` for a `library crate` or `src/main.rs` for a `binary crate`) for code to compile.

* __Declaring modules:__ In the `crate root file`, you can declare new `modules`; say, you declare a “garden” module 
with `mod garden`;. The compiler will look for the module’s code in these places:
  * Inline, within curly brackets that replace the semicolon following `mod garden`
  * In the file `src/garden.rs` 
  * In the file `src/garden/mod.rs`

* __Declaring submodules:__ In any file other than the `crate root`, you can declare `submodules`. For example, 
you might declare `mod vegetables`; in `src/garden.rs`. The compiler will look for the submodule’s code within 
the directory named for the parent module in these places:
  * Inline, directly following `mod vegetables`, within curly brackets instead of the semicolon 
  * In the file `src/garden/vegetables.rs` 
  * In the file `src/garden/vegetables/mod.rs`

* __Paths to code in modules:__ Once a `module` is part of your `crate`, you can refer to code in that `module` from anywhere 
else in that same `crate`, as long as the privacy rules allow, using the `path` to the code. For example, 
an `Asparagus` type in the garden vegetables `module` would be found at `crate::garden::vegetables::Asparagus`. 

* __Private vs public:__ Code within a `module` is `private` from its parent modules by default. To make a module public, 
declare it with `pub mod` instead of `mod`. To make items within a public module public as well, use `pub` before their declarations.

* __The `use` keyword:__ Within a scope, the `use` keyword creates shortcuts to items to reduce repetition of long paths. 
In any scope that can refer to `crate::garden::vegetables::Asparagus`, you can create 
a shortcut with `use crate::garden::vegetables::Asparagus`; and from then on you only need 
to write `Asparagus` to make use of that type in the scope.

Reference: [backyard](referemces/backyard)

## Example and module tree
In the restaurant industry, some parts of a restaurant are referred to as *front of house* and others as *back of house*. 
Front of house is where customers are; this encompasses where the hosts seat customers, servers take orders and payment, 
and bartenders make drinks. Back of house is where the chefs and cooks work in the kitchen, dishwashers clean up, and 
managers do administrative work.

To structure our crate in this way, we can organize its functions into nested modules. 

```console
cargo new --lib restaurant
```

```rust
// src/lib.rs

// We define a module with the `mod` keyword followed by the name of the module
mod front_of_house {
  
  // The body of the module then goes inside curly brackets. 
  // Inside modules, we can place other modules (e.g. hosting and serving),
  // hold definitions for other items, such as structs, enums, constants, traits, and
  // functions
  
  // In this case, front_of_house module places to modules: hosting and serving.
  // Both submodules holds function definitions.
  
  mod hosting {
    fn add_to_waitlist() {}

    fn seat_at_table() {}
  }

  mod serving {
    fn take_order() {}

    fn serve_order() {}

    fn take_payment() {}
  }
}
```

By using modules, we can group related definitions together and name why they’re related.

Earlier, we mentioned that `src/main.rs` and `src/lib.rs` are called `crate roots`. The reason for their name is that the 
contents of either of these two files form a module (implicit module) named `crate` at the root of the crate’s module structure, known as 
the `module tree`.

```console
crate
 └── front_of_house
     ├── hosting
     │   ├── add_to_waitlist
     │   └── seat_at_table
     └── serving
         ├── take_order
         ├── serve_order
         └── take_payment
```

The module tree shows relantionship between modules:
* `hosting` and `serving` are `front_of_house `childs
* `front_of_house` is `hosting` and `serving` parent
* `hosting` and `serving` are siblings defined within `front_of_house`

Remember, module is private from its parent modules by default.

>> The module tree might remind you of the filesystem’s directory tree on your computer. Just like directories in a filesystem, 
you use modules to organize your code. And just like files in a directory, we need a way to find our modules.